---
date: "2022-12-11T11:50:54.000Z"
title: Matchday 8 Lisanza - Nuova Abbiate 3-6
tagline: ""
preview: This weekend I made my debut for the 22-23 season
image: /images/blog/8th-match.jpg
---

On 10 December 2022 I made the debut with my 7-aside football team, called Lisanza, for the 22-23 season. This was Lisanza's 8th match of the league. The match was very chaotich and we lost 6-3. Our team is struggling with consistency among key players presence and a pretty much nonexistent defensive phase.

# A late debut

To explain why I missed the first seven matches, let's jump back to 2014, when I was 16 years old. In that year my maternal grandad was diagnosed testicular cancer, that he discovered while taking a shower. This event shook our family, and my grandad had the surery essentialy the same day he discovered that strange mass on his testicle. Thanks both to my grandad's quick diagnosis and the medical team fast surgery my granfather recovered from the cancer and he is still alive. However, this episode touched me a lot. Besides the disappointment for my grandad, my hypocondria, which I had a bunch, increased. Because of this, I started examining every inch of my body every time I did a shower. One day, while doing so, I noticed a strange and hard little ball on my testicle. I panicked and went to the doctor the day after. After various exams I was told that I had a 4th grade varicocele and a cyst on my left testicle. I was suggested to have a surgery for the varicocele (not the cyst) around the age of 18-20. At the age of 21 I started doing the pre-surgery exams, ensuring that I was still fertile and had no infections. However, the Sars-Cov-2 (covid-19) pandemy exploded. After hundreds of misadventures due to public hospitals, I had a surgery on 10 September 2022. Right now I can't know with certainty if the surgery went well, because I have to wait three months before doing any exam. Nevertheless the surgery type I underwent has a only a little porbability of varicocele recurrence, and the entalged veins, iconic for this disease, are disappeared. So after waiting two months due to testicle soreness, I was finally ready to get back and play football.

# Game analysis

As I said in my first blog post, for this season my match reviews are essentially based on the parameters I outlined to judge the impact I made for my team. To judge my performance I first judge this parameters with a grade on 1-10, and then explain why I gave a certain grade.

- _Game attitude_ : 8
- _Interaction with teammates_ : 5
- _Defensive phase_ : 8
- _Offensive concretization_ : 2
- _Technical Performance_: 6

My final grade for the match is ~5.7. This is not the plain average, which is 6, but a weighted one. The weights are introduced to reduce the importance of the technical performance, which is something that I care but that does not necessarily affect the impact I have on the game. Because, as I said multiple times, technical excellence is not important if it does not directly help the performance of the team and possibly the outcomes. For this reason every parameters weighs .225, while techincal performance weighs .1. The overall rating is aligned with how I intuitively rated the game: I showed good things but the impact on the game was defintely not sufficient, given the potential influence I could have given during the match.

### Game attitude

One thing that surpised me positively was my game attitude. One of my teammates, "Zanco" told me i played with a good mood. I started from the bench, since after the surgery I did only one training with the team. After ~15 minutes, our team was down 3-1, and we were struggling a lot in dealing with the pressure of the opponents. One teammate was particularly struggling on out left wing, where a young and fast player was taking advantage of all the holes our team was leaving open. At the 15 minute my suffering teammate asked to be subbed off for me. Throughout all the first half, my focus on the game was very high and I was processing very fast in my mind the game situations and their patterns, helping myself and my teammates to be more organized. I also took courage and admonished my teammates when they were not following the opponents during the defensive phase, which I think helped the team to be more solid overall. Finally, I also tried to address quietly the negative and blubbering approach of our opponents, that were crying with every little contact. We took the 4-1 but I could not have helped much to prevent it. During the second half the focus remained unaltered, but decreased in the last minutes, where I lost hope, since the opponents scored two other goals. Nevertheless, my mind presence affected positively the overall performance of the team, and I pushed my teammates to do the best they could. A lesson I learned is that coherence and a positive attitude are always rewarded in a competitive environment, and are necessary to build confidence and have a positive impact.

### Interaction with teammates

In this game interacting with the teammates was difficult. Each player was a bit too self focused and passing the ball to them was frustrating, because in most of the cases the ball will never return, even when well positioned to receive it. Sometimes it was difficult to support the teammates and suggest passes since the offensive pressure of the other team was very high and I had to focus very hard on defending. I choose 5 as overall rating because at least I tried to engage with my teammates, without great results.

### Defensive phase

As long as my game attitude is on point, my defending performance should be fine, because errors are limited. As I mentioned previously in this match I was subbed in a very delicate and clutch moment. We were losing 3-1 and the opponent on the left side (my side) was very dangerous. When I was subbed in, I essentially neutralized him. I was very carreful when defending, with good pressure, not allowing him to escape. Furthermore, I also pressured him by running a lot and participating actively in the offensive phase of our game, which made him suffer a lot. As a result, the opponent's coach switched the side of my opponent to relieve him from my pressure. On the second half I defended very carefully and no concrete chances were created from my side. So, the defensive phase outcomes from my side was nice. I like playing on the same lane of my teammate Pablo, which I am sure is happy with the support I gave to him.

### Offensive concretization

Now the hard part, the offensive concretization. With 1 or 2 goals, which I could have scored, my performance would have been very good. When I rate the offensive concretization, I correlate the chances created with the concretized ones. If I create loads of chances and concretize none of them, then the rating will be as low as if I create no chances. This may sound a bit hard on myself, but the reality is that if I don't concretize the chances I create, even if I have been dangerous and I played well, the final outcome is essentialy the same as creating nothing. Moreover, I am hard on my self because I know that concretizing is my major weakness. You know that player which did very little compared to what he could have done: often that's me. In this match I counted 6 clear chances that could lead me to score a goal. All of them were outside the penalty area. Two of them were shoots with my left foot, which by the way improved quite a lot. This shoots were somewhat dangerous and the oppsing goalkeeper needed to do good saves. The other four were shoots with my right foot, which seemed my weak one: the shoots were incredibly out of target. Concretization is also leading a teammate to score a goal with an assist or with a key pass, and I did none of those. Finally, the reason I gave myself a 2 is because my right foot shoots were by far out of target, sloppy and very little concrete. I know my shooting techinque is good and I expected not to fail this attempts, especially when my team needs it the most. Failing or scoring a shoot in a key moment could change the balance of the game, and my failed attempts affected very negatively the balance of this week's game.

### Technical performance

Just a few words. Shooting is 4, because my left shoots were very good: I'd give them a solid 7, while my right foot were abysmal, like a 1. Besides that, the game I played was very clean. I didn't fail any dribble I attempted, and passes was fairly accurate. The best part was the first touch, always on point, quick and on the right direction. My use of the left foot left me very happy. 8 is a good grade for all those things. Thus the average is 6. If I keep my techical abilities like this week and improve my weak foot and my shooting, I will always create loads of chances and improve the finalization of them.

# Final round

In this match good calls were combined with very poor ones. As the analysis brought out, what made this game not sufficient were the proor concretization and the lack of interaction with teammates. Even though this two categories are often correlated, in this match I created most of the chances by myself, with very poor outcomes. The general critique made by myself and my teammates was my luck of focus and the hurry I feel when finalizing my action. When practicing shooting, I am always fairly accurate, but in game things reverted. I thing this critique is very on point and I have some ideas to improve. To enhance my finalization when shooting in game I should be more focused and less hurried. I should give to the shoot preparation the right amount of time. On this week I will definetely try some shooting and finalization drills with the purpose of focusing better and quicker when preparing a shoot. The drill I will do the most would be driblling cones until a timer ends, exiting the cones area and shoot. To enhance the interaction with my teammates I will simply try to talk with them and play with more will to do so. Next match is wednesday. On tuesday I will start working and I don't know how much time I will be able to practice with consistency. I hope I will be able to find a routine. Let's go Lisanza!
